Start Markdown documentation of the maps system (#434)
pret/pokeplatinum: docs/maps/file_format_specifications.md

# Map file format specifications

The following sections describe the various file formats encountered in the files
containing map data.

Values and offsets described in this document are those found in the vanilla ROM
of Pokémon Platinum.

Here's a graph representing the different files and how they point to data in
other files:

> ```mermaid

Reviewer: **question**: This is cool! Is this a Github specific extension? Does it work with other renderers?

Author: Not sure how widely implemented this is, but it also works with at least GitLab and the Markdown extension I use in VSCode ^^

    map_matrix --> land_data : landDataIDs

    area_build --> bm_anime_list : mapPropModelIDs
    area_build --> build_model : mapPropModelIDs

    land_data --> build_model_matshp : mapProps.modelID
    land_data --> build_model : mapProps.modelID

    build_model_matshp --> build_model

    bm_anime_list --> bm_anime : animeArchiveIDs
```

As you can see, most of those files are NARC files.

The following types are considered well-known and used throughout this document:

- `u8`/`u16`/`u32`: unsigned 8/16/32-bit integers.
- `bool`: unsigned 8-bit integer, where 0 is `false` and 1 is `true`.
- `char`: unsigned 8-bit integer representing a character.
- `fx16`: signed 16-bit fixed-point number, with 1 bit for the sign, 3 bits for
  the integer part, and 12 bits for the fractional part (1.3.12).
- `fx32`: signed 32-bit fixed-point number, with 1 bit for the sign, 19 bits
  for the integer part, and 12 bits for the fractional part (1.19.12).
- `VecFx32`: structure containing three `fx32` values, representing a 3D vector.

Moreover, for any type `T`, `T[]` represents an array of `T`. Any other type
should be documented in the context where it is used.

## Map headers

> The map headers are not stored in a file on the ROM, but are instead hard-coded
> in the game's code. Because of it is the starting point for loading a map, it
> is nevertheless included in this list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The map headers are not stored in a file on the ROM, but are instead stored in
a table inside the code binary. Because it is the starting point for loading a
map, it is nevertheless included in this list.
```

A map header is a structure that contains metadata about a map:

```c
struct MapHeader {
    u8 areaDataArchiveID;
    u8 unk_01;
    u16 mapMatrixID;
    u16 scriptsArchiveID;
    u16 initScriptsArchiveID;
    u16 msgArchiveID;
    u16 dayMusicID;
    u16 nightMusicID;
    u16 wildEncountersArchiveID;
    u16 eventsArchiveID;
    u16 mapLabelTextID : 8;
    u16 mapLabelWindowID : 8;
    u8 weather;
    u8 cameraType;
    u16 mapType : 7;
    u16 battleBG : 5;
    u16 isBikeAllowed : 1;
    u16 isRunningAllowed : 1;
    u16 isEscapeRopeAllowed : 1;
    u16 isFlyAllowed : 1;
};
```

## Map matrix (`map_matrix.narc`)

This NARC contains 289 files.

Each file size is a multiple of 4 bytes, padding with `0xFF` at the end if

> necessary.

Reviewer: **question**: Is this the case, or potentially misleading? The NARC specification itself defines that member files are padded to word-boundaries with `0xFF`.

Author: If I'm not mistaken, 237 files out of the 289 in this NARC require padding.

Didn't know this was part of the NARC specification. Should we instead add a warning at the beginning of the file, or leave this out entirely?

Reviewer: I think leaving it out is fine, or specifying that the structure sizes stored in the filesystem are padded to word-length by the NARC specification.

Author: I decided on leaving a note at the beginning of the document:

```markdown
> [!NOTE]
> As per the NARC specification, the size of each file contained inside one of
> those archives must be a multiple of 4 bytes. If this is not the case, the
> file is padded with `0xFF` bytes at the end to reach this.
```
